Every morning the Sun rises in the East, setting fire with his ardent
rays to the sky, which is dazzling with his splendor. He ascends through
space, reaches a culminating point at noon, and then descends toward the
West, to sink at night into the purple of the sunset.

And then the stars, grand lighthouses of the Heavens, in their turn
incandesce. They too rise in the East, ascend the vault of Heaven, and
then descend to the West, and vanish. All the orbs, Sun, Moon, planets,
stars, appear to revolve round us in twenty-four hours.

This journey of the orbs around us is only an illusion of the senses.

Whether the Earth be at rest, and the sky animated with a rotary
movement round her, or whether, on the contrary, the stars are fixed,
and the Earth in motion, in either case, for us appearances are the
same. If the Earth turns, carrying all that pertains to it in its
motion--the seas, the atmosphere, the clouds, and ourselves,--we are
unable to perceive it, because all the objects that surround us keep
their respective positions among themselves. Hence we must resort to
logic, and reason out the two hypotheses.

For the accomplishment of this rapid journey of the Sun and stars around
the Earth, it would be necessary that all the orbs of the sky should be
in some way attached to a vault, or to circles, as was formerly
supposed. This conception is childish. The peoples of antiquity had no
notion of the size of the universe, and their error is almost excusable.
The distance separating Heaven from the Infernal Regions has been
measured, according to Hesiod, by Vulcan's anvil, which fell from the
skies to the Earth in nine days and nine nights, and it would have
taken as long again to continue its journey from the surface of the
Earth to the bowels of Hades.

To-day we have a more exact notion of the grandeur of the Universe. We
know that millions and trillions of miles separate the stars from one
another. And by representing these distances, we can form some idea of
the difficulty there would be in admitting the rotation of the universe
round the Earth.

The distance from here to the Sun is 149,000,000 kilometers (93,000,000
miles). In order to turn in twenty-four hours round the Earth, that orb
would have to fly through Space at a velocity of more than 10,000
kilometers (6,200 miles) a second.
